docs(ad-api): add cooperation api (#276)
autowarefoundation/autoware-documentation: docs/design/autoware-interfaces/ad-api/features/cooperation.md

# Cooperation

## Related API

- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/velocity_factors') }}
- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/steering_factors') }}
- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/cooperation/set_commands') }}
- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/cooperation/set_policies') }}
- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/cooperation/get_policies') }}

## Description

Some planning modules can receive the operator decision and reflect it in their behavior.
These modules have their own decisions, but their behavior is based on the operator decisions.

> The operator can check the module decision and change the operator decision if necessary.

Author: Rewrite description https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware-documentation/pull/276/commits/82d39bdaca5b9680e8185e5d56a070c22bcd6409.

If the module supports this feature, [cooperation status](../types/autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/msg/CooperationStatus.md) is provided in [velocity factors or steering factors](./planning-factors.md).

![cooperation-architecture](./cooperation/architecture.drawio.svg)

## Scene ID

The cooperation status contains an ID to distinguish scenes.
This ID is generated for each scene that requires decision and doesn't change until the scene is completed or canceled.
To set the operator decision, it needs to specify the ID by selecting the target scene from the cooperation status.
In practice, the application can hides the specification of the ID and provides an abstracted interface to the operator.

## Decisions

> The module decision is either deactivate or activate. The operator decision is also evaluated in one of these.

Reviewer: There could a better phase other than "deactivate"/"activate".
It sounds like operator would terminate the module itself if they "deactivate" a module.

Alternative examples could be:
- approve / accept / apply module decision
- reject / ignore module decision

Author: Those words were originally considered as candidates, but they were not adopted because it had a different meaning. The equivalent of "approve / accept / apply" is "autonomous", and the equivalent of "reject / ignore" is "deactivate / activate".

This is because the operator decisions do not describe how the module decisions should be processed, but rather how the vehicle behavior should be determined.

# Cooperation

## Related API

- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/velocity_factors') }}
- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/steering_factors') }}
- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/cooperation/set_commands') }}
- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/cooperation/set_policies') }}
- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/cooperation/get_policies') }}

## Description

> Request to cooperate (RTC) is a feature that the operator supports the decision in autonomous driving mode.
> The planning component manages each situation that requires decision as a scene.
> Autoware usually drives the vehicle using its own decisions, but the operator may prefer to make their decisions in experiments and complex situations.
> 
> Each scene has an ID that doesn't change until the scene is completed or canceled.
> The operator can override the decision of the target scene using this ID.
> In practice, the user interface application can hides the specification of the ID and provides an abstracted interface to the operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Request to cooperate (RTC) is a feature that enables a human operator to support the decision in autonomous driving mode.
Autoware usually drives the vehicle using its own decisions, but the operator may prefer to make their decisions in experiments and complex situations.

The planning component manages each situation that requires decision as a scene.
Each scene has an ID that doesn't change until the scene is completed or canceled.
The operator can override the decision of the target scene using this ID.
In practice, the user interface application can hides the specification of the ID and provides an abstracted interface to the operator.
```

For example, in the situation in the diagram below, change lanes twice and turn left at the intersection.
There are three scenes and each has a decision to change or keep the lane, turn left or wait.

> Here Autoware decides not to change lanes a second time due to the obstacle, so the vehicle will stop there.

Reviewer: It might be better to include operator interaction in the example as well.

```suggestion
Here Autoware decides not to change lanes a second time due to the obstacle, so the vehicle will stop there.
However, operator could overwrite that decision through RTC function and force the lane change so that vehicle could reach to it's goal. 
```

![cooperation-scenes](./cooperation/scenes.drawio.svg)

## Architecture

Modules that support RTC have the operator decision and cooperation policy in addition to the module decision as shown below.
These modules use the merged decision that is determined by these values when planning vehicle behavior.
See decisions section for details of these values.
The cooperation policy is used when there is no operator decision and has a default value set by the system settings.
If the module supports RTC, these information are available in [velocity factors or steering factors](./planning-factors.md) as [cooperation status](../types/autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/msg/CooperationStatus.md).

![cooperation-architecture](./cooperation/architecture.drawio.svg)

## Sequence

> Here is an example sequence that overrides the scene decision to force a lane change. This assumes the second scene in the example situation given earlier.

Reviewer: It might be better to label the image mentioned in Overview chapter to be Fig.1 and mention it here.

Author: I wrote `the diagram in the architecture section` because I couldn't use captions on markdown.

> 1. A module creates a scene with generated ID BBBB when approaching a place where a lane change is needed.
> 2. The scene determines the module decision from the current situation.
> 3. The scene determines the merged decision. Since there is no operator decision, so the cooperation policy is used.
> 4. The scene plans the vehicle to keep the lane.
> 5. The scene sends a cooperation status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A planning module creates a scene instance with unique ID BBBB when approaching a place where a lane change is needed.
2. The scene module generates the module decision from the current situation. In the case of Fig.1, let's assume module decision is not to do a lane change due to the obstacle.
3. At this point, there is no operator decision yet, so the vehicle will drive according to the module decision. Therefore, the vehicle keeps driving in the same lane.
5. The scene instance sends a cooperation status.
```

Author: Updated https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware-documentation/pull/276/commits/2e4095a68daf18cbfa426a3d9e447bbb43311534.

# Cooperation

## Related API

- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/velocity_factors') }}
- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/steering_factors') }}
- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/cooperation/set_commands') }}
- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/cooperation/set_policies') }}
- {{ link_ad_api('/api/planning/cooperation/get_policies') }}

## Description

Request to cooperate (RTC) is a feature that enables a human operator to support the decision in autonomous driving mode.
Autoware usually drives the vehicle using its own decisions, but the operator may prefer to make their decisions in experiments and complex situations.

The planning component manages each situation that requires decision as a scene.
Each scene has an ID that doesn't change until the scene is completed or canceled.
The operator can override the decision of the target scene using this ID.
In practice, the user interface application can hides the specification of the ID and provides an abstracted interface to the operator.

> For example, in the situation in the diagram below, change lanes twice and turn left at the intersection.
> There are three scenes and each has a decision to change or keep the lane, turn left or wait.

Reviewer: The first sentence is not a full sentence.
```suggestion
For example, in the situation in the diagram below, vehicle is expected to make two lane changes and turning left at the intersection.
Therefore the planning component generates three scene instances for each required action, and each scene instance will wait for the decision to be made, in this case "changing or keeping lane" and "turning left or waiting at the intersection".
```
